I
Want to talk to you this morning about the battle that rages for your mind
And you have to be aware
That Satan is coming against this generation
in an unprecedented measure
He is attacking this generation to take the thoughts of God out of the minds of an entire society
He's doing it through the school system. He's doing it in our colleges. He's doing it in the marketplace
He's doing it in the halls of government and he's even doing it in the house of God
Trying to eradicate
Everything that comes from the mind of God
to blind an entire generation
to take captives as many as he can for the scripture says he knows that his time is short and
We have precedence in history to know that this can happen
these people in the book of Genesis were not that far from
the testimony of the creation of God
They would have the stories they they would have the knowledge
They they had the lineage just like so many have throughout history
but they allowed something to take over the fallen nature of
humankind that fallen nature that was sewn into humankind in the Garden of Eden
That which is resident within you and me
All of society every man, every woman ever created has this capacity of sin inside that manifests itself
through the thought that I can be as God and I can determine in
Myself. What is good? And what is evil? I don't need God to tell me what the parameters of acceptable behavior are
I can determine that on my own
that's
exactly
The warfare just as Satan came in and tempted Adam and Eve with this thought and they bought into this thought and they stepped outside
To the parameters of the protection of God and look at the heartache that came into humanity because of it
Look at the heartache that visited their own home. When one of their sons became a murderer and murdered his brother
although the devil never paints the whole picture
He only paints a little piece of the canvas and it's always the little piece that's got sunshine in it
he never paints the side that has death the side that has decay in despair and depression and addiction and
Hopelessness and broken families and tears and sorrow he never paints that side of the canvas. He only paints the sunny side first
Bible tells us in the book of Romans
Chapter 1
What a society looks like that falls into spiritual decline
When people can no longer and will no longer hear the words of God when a rebellion gets a hold of a people
Whether it's through ignorance or whether it's deliberate or just simply through neglect
listen to what Paul writes and describes is the spiritual and moral decline of
Any society that chooses to follow in the same footsteps
That those in the days of Noah decided to walk in
Verse 18 of Romans 1 says the wrath of God is revealed from heaven
against all ungodliness
And unrighteousness of men who?
suppress the truth or hold down the truth in unrighteousness
Because what may be known of God is manifest in them for God has shown it to them folks. Listen to me
I've been here 21 years in America. I came here in 1994
at the invitation of pastor David Wilkerson and
I remember
Coming here thinking what an incredible nation. This is the freedom here. I remember people out on the streets
dressed in some kind of costume literally cursing people up and down as they walked by and
I thought where in America would you be allowed to do this?
Where I've come from you'd be arrested and thrown in a loony bin for what these guys and girls were doing
But in 21 years, I have witnessed the moral decline of this nation. I
Witnessed something that terrifies my heart. I've watched a whole generation taken captive by ungodly thought and moved away
From the very fabric of what makes the nation strong and what makes it people truly virtuous
Verse 19 says what may be known of God is manifest in them for God has shown it to them
There is no reason for the spiritual ignorance
That is being displayed in this nation today
For since the creation of the world his invisible attributes are clearly seen
being understood by the things that are made even his eternal power and Godhead so that they are without excuse because
although they knew God they did not glorify Him as God verse 21
Nor we're thankful, but became futile in their thoughts and their foolish hearts were darkened professing
To be wise they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like corruptible, man
birds and four-footed animals and creeping things
Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their hearts to dishonour their bodies among themselves
Which changed the truth of God for the lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed for every men
For this reason God gave them up to vile passions
for even their women exchanged the natural use for what is against nature and
Likewise also the men leaving the man use of the woman burned in their lust one for another
Men with men committing that which is shameful and receiving in themselves the penalty of their error which was due
And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge God gave them over to a debased mind
To do things that are not fitting you see here's the opponent. They didn't want to retain God than their knowledge
They wanted the name of God eradicated from their society
They wanted the name of Jesus only to be a curse word in g-rated movies
They this is what they wanted of God
They wanted everything that would remind them of the one would bless them taken out of their coasts
We look in the testimony of Scripture and remember the man in the in the gathering
cemetery that was set free by Jesus Christ from a Thousand Devils a
Man that nobody could tame and yet when he went into the society and made his testimony of what God had done
Description says the whole town came out and they encouraged Jesus to leave their borders and do his work somewhere else
Oh how history repeats itself. God comes sets of people free
Gives blessing and power gives knowledge and understanding and we do the same
Thing in ignorance that many before I've done saying thank you for what you did, but would you mind leaving our borders?
We'll take it from here now
Would you mind letting us alone?
We don't want you interrupting our good lifestyle
We don't want you interrupting our Commerce our pursuit of life our ideas of liberty and happiness
we choose to embrace these things as
We envision them to be not as your word says that they are verse 29 says being filled with all unrighteousness
sexual immorality wickedness covetousness maliciousness
full of envy murder deceit strife evil mindedness whisperers backbiters
haters of God violent proud boasters inventors of evil things disobedient to parents
Sounds like the news
undiscerning untrustworthy unloving unforgiving
Unmerciful who knowing the righteous judgment of God that those who practice such things are deserving of death
Not only do the same but also approve of those who practice them not wanting God in our thoughts
It will always lead to the same place
You know, the definition of a fool is somebody who does the same thing over and over again and every time for expecting different results
The pattern is there the history is there
It's it's not hidden
Like Paul said in Romans 1 we know it we have history books at least something of history might be left
We've seen what's happened to other societies who have done exactly what this society is now attempting to do
You know in the days of Noah
Said God looked down and it repented him. He was sorry in his heart for what he had created and
the scripture tells us
in Matthew chapter 24
Jesus talks about the days that Noah says but as the days of Noah were so
We'll also the coming of the Son of Man. He's now talking about the return of Jesus Christ
And he likens it to the days of Noah
I want you to listen carefully to this as in the days before the flood they were eating and drinking marrying
giving it marriage until the day that Noah entered the Ark and
They did not know until the flood came and took them all away. So
Also, will the coming of the Son of Man be?
They had no idea
How short their time was?
Every day passing by this visible testimony of God that was set before them. There was a place of mercy
Peter in the New Testament calls Noah a preacher of righteousness
I'm sure he most likely stood there inviting people into this place of safety prepared by God
but the society around him the thoughts were so
Encapsulated in rebellion against God that even though they could recognize that this was something supernatural
This was something sovereign they couldn't embrace it
And they had no idea in their minds. They were marrying their giving in marriage in their minds. They were righteous
They were committed they were committing one to another what possible issue. Could God have with this?
they were
Feasting as if there was a million tomorrow's folks. Do you know how close we are to the coming of Jesus Christ?
The Bible tells us we don't know the very day or the hour
But we're not children of darkness that that day should overtake us as a thief. Can you see it?
Do you understand that we're on the threshold of the return of Christ now? He's right at the doors
I can hear his footsteps coming. There's something in my heart. That's saying get your lamp out trim your lamp. Get ready
Behold the bridegroom is coming go up to meet him that's got to be the cry of the church
Now the bridegroom is coming go out to meet him get oil in your lamp. Get ready
The son of God is coming the world as we know it is coming to an end
It's all coming to an end this insanity in the Middle Eastern nation now rising against nation
He's coming upon the earth. Just as Jesus said they want
All leading to this definitive moment folks the ungodly know that Christ is coming
There's something in the hearts of every man woman and child that knows the hour. We're living it
We're living in the season of Christ's return. I fully expect this event scripture calls the rapture of the Church of Jesus Christ
I expect it to happen any day now
Even in the Church of Jesus Christ, there's a dullness in months. Not all thank God
I'm not standing here to indict the body of Christ
It's not my job
But I'm telling you there's many places where that people in God's house are just as blind as the people outside of God's house
The last king of Babylon was called
belteshazzar and
Here the history he knew God that God had dealt with one of his forefathers severely to show that man
that the kingdoms belong to God and he sits on
The throne who he chooses and he takes off for me chooses and that knowledge was not hidden from him
But yet he chose to take the holy things of God that had been taken out of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem
and he
threw a feast for all of his friends and all of his family and they put wine in these vessels and they began to
party, and they praised the gods of gold and silver and stoned and wood and
Then suddenly the writing of a hand
Appears on a wall its sovereign and they know that God's trying to speak but nobody in the room can understand what it says
And that's what happens when you begin to party with the holy things of God when you take lightly
The cross of Jesus Christ when that kind of a spirit gets ahold of God's people they open the book, but they can't understand it
The hand of God wrote this book
Through the Apostle Paul's you Matthew Mark Luke and John it was a human hand
But it was and of God superimposed over them that wrote the words of this book
And when people take lightly this salvation when Christ is only just an add-on to an already set in motion life plan
When Jesus is no more than a song on Sunday and fire insurance for the rest of the week when there's no living
Relationship men and women don't read their Bible because they can't understand it
And that's what happens with the party crowd
The Jesus party crowd that's what happens to them. So it's happening in this generation. Oh
how
Unaware they're going to be how caught off guard
Men are going to be when all hell begins to break out and they'd stand in their congregations. They preach you told me
that if I would come to Jesus it would be nothing but wealth and health and happiness and prosperity and a bigger slice of the
pie
Your lied to me and
So they called for the men of God
They knew there was a man of God still left in the kingdom and Daniel stood before Belshazzar in all of his entourage
And he said here's what God's Word says
You've been weighed in the balance and you've been found wanting
And God has numbered the days of your kingdom and finished it
and even though you stand in the place of power and authority
Your kingdom is over he's giving it to somebody else another nation is going to take your place
Now the interesting thing is
The servant of God stood there in the words of God were clear
There was no ambiguity. There was no misunderstanding
But this king Belshazzar and possibly many who are with him. They could recognize truth but strangely couldn't hear it
They could recognize it. You could be sitting here this morning and you can recognize is that man is speaking from God
The words that he speaks I know they're true, but you can't be moved to change your behavior through it
You can't be moved to bend your knee. You can't be moved to say my ways are not God's ways
It's a strange affliction of those who've played games with the holy things of God the ability to recognize
Truth but a lack of ability to embrace
what they recognize
Daniel students before Belshazzar and says your kingdom is over your
Season of a ruling is finished. Your military mind is not going to save you now
And he stands before Belshazzar and tells him your kingdom is done
It's been given to somebody else and what this Belshazzar do, he commands his
Servant surrounded missus promote Daniel to the third highest ruler in the kingdom
Put a gold chain on his neck and put new robes on his back. So here he is. Daniel's just standing there
It must have been so incredulous this
Foolish king was decorating him while the enemies were right at the gate
Recognizing and decorating and honoring a man who spoke the truth, but yet unwilling to bend his knee to what he was hearing
If you are able to be under conviction
Thank God for it if you are living in sin, and you are bothered by it
Thank God that you are bothered that means God is still in your thoughts. God is still with you
God is still fighting for you
The danger is that when God is no longer
in your thoughts when you've sinned away the deep grace as they used to preach years ago in the house of God when you've so
Resisted God then finally is withdrawn. And says okey have it your way
live you way
Create your own system of right and wrong
don't
Bend your knee to God and he walks away and a man who lives in evil starts thinking he's doing good even begins to think
That heaven might be his home when it's all over
God is no longer in any of his thoughts as in the days of Noah his thoughts are continuously evil
He doesn't think they're evil
But when you when you have expelled God from the borders of your mind, there's nothing left
But that which is created out of the human spirit which in contrast to the holiness of God of course is evil
No matter the difficulty of the time
that's why Hebrews chapter 3 and 4 three times says
You can still hear God
Don't harden your heart
If God is in your thoughts of God is fighting against that which wants to occupy your mind if you feel like there's a war
Going on inside of your head. Thank God. There is a war. That means two opposing sides are still there
When there's no longer war you've either given in to one side or the other?
But thank God there's a war thank God that those of us who know him
We we can't do wrong without being convicted of the holy spirit immediately
That what we're doing is dishonouring to God we can't speak something
We shouldn't speak without you can't even if I say something I shouldn't say
I can't get from here to the end of the platform without him suddenly talking. Hey, wait a minute. Get back here
We got to talk about something. Thank God. Thank God
We all struggle with our thoughts
We all battle despair knocks on every door depression tries to find lust comes to every mind
The tendency to want to exaggerate embellish your outright lie comes to every person we want to be angry
We want to hate those that persecute us and speak evil of us
We fight in our minds, but the difference is that the true believer God is in our thoughts
God is with us in our thoughts. He is touched with the feelings of our infirmities
He's not aloof he's not angry he's not critical he doesn't stand as judge
He stands as the one who says come to me in your time of struggle come quickly to the throne of grace
That I may help you in your time of need God is with us in our thoughts
I thank the Lord for that with all my heart and he promises us victory and power to withstand
The downward pall of this fallen generation and there is a huge downward pull
To conform now in this generation. We are living in a time very much like Daniels time when
Statues of our being raised up of what man says this is what the image of society should look like
And when you hear the music you better bow or you're going to suffer for it
God is the only one who can give us the power to stand
God is the one
The weapons of our warfare are not carnal the weapons of our warfare are mighty the weapons of our warfare
God gives us through faith in the finished victory of Christ on the cross
He gives us the power to pull down these thoughts that would try to rise up and exalt themselves above the knowledge of God
Whether they're coming in from the outside or they're coming in from the inside as Paul said I've got Fighting's without and fears within
It doesn't matter where they come from God
Promises me the power to pull them down.
I Can walk in the light of Scripture, I can walk in the truth of God I can stand in an evil day
I Can be given authority to make a difference
Even though everything around me looks like it's going the other way
And I might seem you might seem like the only fish in the stream going upstream and everybody else is going the opposite direction
but God says I've given you weaponry and power to pull down these strongholds and
To cast down these arguments and all these high things that have exalted themselves
Against the knowledge of God and to bring these thoughts into captivity
That's why it's so important to win the battle of the mind
That is the battleground that we've got to fight on now and that's where the battle must be won
Because we are all that is left
To stay the hand of God's judgment on this nation hear me on this. We're all that's left
There's no political party
There's no new preacher
There's nothing good to have this nation is on a collision course with Almighty. God himself
And there's nothing left to stop it from where it's going, but you and me
Coming in boldly as Hebrews tells us to do to the throne room of grace and say God. I'm not here just for myself
Thank you God for winning this victory, but I'm here for my city. I'm here for my family. I'm here for my friends
I'm here for my enemies. I'm here God
For those that don't even know who you are
I'm here to cast down in the name of Jesus Christ the thoughts that are holding them captive and
Keeping them from the salvation. That's freely offered them in Christ Jesus. That's why folks
We've got to pray like we've never prayed before
This is not an hour for player to play. It's an hour to pray
It's an hour to come into the throne room of God. It's an hour to be filled with faith. It's an hour to stand
Moses stood before Pharaoh and say no deals with you
It's an hour to come to the throne of God not in our strength
But in our weakness not with a history of our faithfulness
But with a recognition that God's mercy has covered everything that we've done to offend his name
coming into that throne room of grace in the midst of our
Recognition of our own poverty in our own name not coming in with arrogance not coming in knowing everything but knowing this one thing
There's only one name given under heaven whereby men might be saved
Coming in and believing that wouldn't we pray God hears us if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray
I'll hear from heaven. I'll forgive their sin and heal their land
Jesus said now my eyes will be open in my ears. We'll be listening for the prayer that is prayed in this place
It's time to pray folks. It's time to pray
It's not about a program and I'm talking about a program
It's time to pray it's life or death for people now
It's time to pray we've come to the very border of becoming a godless nation
It's time to pray it's time for you and I to go down knees and begin to petition God
It's time for us to make a decision
As Joshua said to the people of his day
If it seemed difficult for you to serve the Lord choose this day whom you're going to serve but as for me in my house
We will serve the Lord choose
The state choose this day choose to say whom you're going to serve choose to stand
Choose to be alight choose to be a man and woman to prayer choose to be a great relationship with men and God
Choose to do it God's Way choose to walk inside of the boundaries of the text of Scripture
Choose it with all your heart
Only the prayer meeting can save America nothing else is going to make a difference
We are always left
As Aaron once did
With the only thing that stands between a rebellious people and the wrath of a holy God
We're played away our damn grace in this nation. We have snapped our noses of God too long
We've entered into the fields of the fatherless forgetting that God's Word says 50 million babies have been aborted in this nation and
We're going into the schools of those we didn't kill in the womb and telling them there is no God
We have entered into the fields of the fatherless
And God says when you do that I will rise up and defend them
We've crossed the line in the society
The only thing left is the permit the only thing left is you and I
Going again to our knees
with lives as much as we know a walking in obedience to
what God has asked us to do and with hearts filled with faith and
with a passion, you know hardnesses of God Oh
God
This is my prayer. Most every morning now. I
Said Lord if New York City
If people in this city go to hell let it be because they had a choice
Let it be because they knew and rejected the truth
But don't let anybody end up there who never heart. I
Pray God for an awakening in the city in every Church
I don't care what names on the door anyone old Jesus son of God visit the people who come to your house
Visit our parks our businesses our schools
Visit us God as you've done in the days of old I
Know what God can do
I know he can visit the society. It looks so big to us look so
Insurmountable, but that's always the way it's been throughout the course of history
Enemy armies gather they've got the superior armor. They've they've got this the upper side
Seeming to have all the advantage and all God's people have left his faith
So ironic we start we end up what we should have started we turned to him again
The only hope for American folks is a spiritual awakening
Where men and women wake up where the Church of Christ wakes up where we begin to realize where we are what we have done
Begin to understand that it's not God's heart to judge
It's in God's heart to be merciful and His mercy will be there until we reach the point where our thoughts are
continuously evil
As the people of God is so important now that
Our minds become shrouded in this book
And as Paul said whatever is a virtue, whatever's of good report
Whatever is praiseworthy would have this lovely think on these things and the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly
It's time to get out of the seat of the scornful
It's time to stop associating with sinners if we're associating for any other reason but winning them to Christ
It's time to make the break folks
It's time to get oil in our laps
We don't have that long
Madmen
Are eventually going to get access to weapons of destruction? That's a given it's only a matter of time
I'm not trying to scare you trying to stir you
We're going home soon
Soon and very soon we're going to see the king
Whether Christ returns for us or we go to him first, I don't know but soon and very soon
We're going to see the king. I
Want to challenge you to pray like you've never prayed before we stand for God like you've never stood before
You have to have a vision of yourself. You have to see how important you are to the kingdom of God
I'm talking to everybody here you are important to the kingdom of God
You are the only one that stands between your family and the judgment of God. Do you understand that?
You're the only one that stands between God and this boss that you hate and workers that stab you in the back
They're going to a Christ as eternity. Do you understand? You're the only one left?
There's nobody else. They're not going to hear it anywhere else
There's only one person left standing that can separate them from death, eternally, and it's you
You